# customer-behavioral-segmentation-using-cluster-analysis
# here i'm trying to explain the whole code so it becomes easy to understand the clusters 
Market segmentation is the activity of dividing a broad consumer or business market, normally consisting of existing and potential customers, into sub-groups of consumers based on some type of shared characteristics. Companies employing customer segmentation operate under the fact that every customer is different and that their marketing efforts would be better served if they target specific, smaller groups with messages that those consumers would find relevant and lead them to buy something. Companies also hope to gain a deeper understanding of their customers' preferences and needs with the idea of discovering what each segment finds most valuable to more accurately tailor marketing materials toward that segment.

Malls or shopping complexes are often indulged in the race to increase their customers and hence making huge profits. To achieve this task machine learning is being applied by many stores already. The shopping complexes make use of their customers’ data and develop ML models to target the right ones. This not only increases sales but also makes the complexes efficient.

Analyzing the Results
We can see that the mall customers can be broadly grouped into 5 groups based on their purchases made in the mall. In cluster 4(yellow colored) we can see people have low annual income and low spending scores, this is quite reasonable as people having low salaries prefer to buy less, in fact, these are the wise people who know how to spend and save money. The shops/mall will be least interested in people belonging to this cluster.

In cluster 2(blue colored) we can see that people have low income but higher spending scores, these are those people who for some reason love to buy products more often even though they have a low income. Maybe it’s because these people are more than satisfied with the mall services. The shops/malls might not target these people that effectively but still will not lose them.

In cluster 5(pink colored) we see that people have average income and an average spending score, these people again will not be the prime targets of the shops or mall, but again they will be considered and other data analysis techniques may be used to increase their spending score.
In cluster 1(red-colored) we see that people have high income and high spending scores, this is the ideal case for the mall or shops as these people are the prime sources of profit. These people might be the regular customers of the mall and are convinced by people at mall.

In cluster 3(green colored) we see that people have high income but low spending scores, this is interesting. Maybe these are the people who are unsatisfied or unhappy by the mall’s services. These can be the prime targets of the mall, as they have the potential to spend money. So, the mall authorities will try to add new facilities so that they can attract these people and can meet their needs.
